# LibreMesh Meeting 20th February 2022

**People and topics**

guifipedro (hasta las 13:40 UTC), cri, hiure, ilario, luandro, ger, nicop, Mark Birss, may

empezamos a las 13:15 UTC

Temas - Topics - Orden del día:

- Qué presentó AlterMundi a ARDC para financiar desarrollo en Libremesh. (ger ferrero)

- Qué estuvimos haciendo en los ultimos meses (nicop)

- Analysis of the implementation status of last meeting's decisions

- GSoC projects presentation deadline is tomorrow

- Próxima reunión de proyecto / Next project meeting


Temas dejados para próximos meetings - Topics left for next meetings:


- Metodos de participación para mejorar la inclusividad del proyecto (foro, wiki) / Participation methods for increasing the inclusion of community in the project (forum, wiki)

- Documentación / Documentation

- Como usar las donaciones / How to use the donations

- Temas tecnicos? (soporte OpenWrt 21.02, QoS con TC) / Technical topics? (support for OpenWrt 21.02, QoS,using TC)

- Abierto para propuestas y otros temas / Open for proposals and other topics


Acta de reunión / Minutes of the meeting

- NicoP:
propone añadir al orden del día el punto "Qué estuvimos haciendo en los ultimos meses"
- Cri:
programadora, centros sociales, brasil, 2016 salió de la ciudad para vivir, nodo LibreMesh v15 en montaña, ahora 50 nodos, muchas veces herida por dificultades con configuración LibreMesh, ajuda de Ilario y G10h4ck per configuración, aprender buildroot y linea mando LibreMesh, traducí unas paginas de la web, amore y odio por LibreMesh
- guifipedro:
participo en guifi.net y exo.cat, usé qmp, libremesh, pero ahora gestiona con https://gitlab.com/guifi-exo/temba . interesado en facilitar conexión a personas, generar comunidades. compartir configuraciones que funcionan. por aquí estamos en bmx6 y esperamos algún día movernos a 


*THE ETHERPAD STOPPED SYNCING HERE, SO FROM HERE ON THE LOG IS RECONSTRUCTED BASED ON THE PARTICIPANTS' MEMORY*

- Qué presentó AlterMundi a ARDC para financiar desarrollo en Libremesh. (ger ferrero)


Altermundi applied for a big grant from a amateur radio association https://www.ampr.org/ , they found the grant with short notice, maybe the content of the project can be edited also once it has been granted?
Ger wrote a large list of ideas with a planning spanning over one year and a half.
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-dgUv9LE-VBIE6GDDUDDjVm9h4IrH9uqk8YXi-u3b18/edit#gid=0
Altermundi is applying for grants as Altermundi is financially supporting some of the LibreRouter & LibreMesh & lime-app developers.
The amount of ideas and work is so huge that if the project is approved it is likely that more developers will be needed!
Specifically, if there's someone with experience in UX (user experience) it would for sure be needed.


- Qué estuvimos haciendo en los ultimos meses (nicop)


Ger, SAn & Luandro were working on Pirania
Luandro was working also on translations, shared this interesting local app (some not properti work in internet) https://moinho.app/
The others were also doing many amazingly cool stuff I cannot exactly recall.
Cri  said that in their network have now 1, and soon 3 antennas working with lime based on openwrt21, because discovered that the CPE512 V.3.2 tplink antennas are supported now starting from that version, so we are building for ourself to use the antennas, that where with airos, but we have some problem... seems that level 2 not discovery other nodes, so changing the domain of our IP, mesh works ..... ^^
shared a presentation with the status of their 57 people for 25nodes network and the included services
https://campiaperti.org/infra/2021-rc3.html
Mark Birss shared an interesting post from Luandro about LoRA+LibreMesh
https://meshtastic.discourse.group/t/meshtastic-to-connect-remote-villages-deep-in-the-amazon/2643

- Analysis of the implementation status of last meeting's decisions


traspasar usuarios de lime-dev a lime-users y dejar de usar lime-dev - move the users from lime-dev to lime-users mailing list and stop using lime-dev mailing list

SAn executed this

red inicialmente geek-free: proponer en la lista de correo [ger ferrero: yo podría iniciar este hilo, luego de que San traspase los usuarios] - defining LibreMesh as a "initially geek-free" project, which means that we want to develop LibreMesh so that non-geek users can start using LibreMesh, but will be encouraged to understand the inner mechanisms if they want

ilario edited a bit the website https://github.com/libremesh/lime-web/commit/97223e8a830ca3e18e05b0b104a499db7d1e3583
but deeper edits are needed, mostly at the homepage
Cri proposes to add guides/interviews/pra for dealing with community management and human problems
Ger proposes to set the flow of the website so that is more human and less technical-topics oriented
A submeeting has to be set for actually discussing the details and implementing them on the website

publicamos el acta en la lista de correo - this meeting log will be published in the lime-users mailing list

Done, but the archive of the mailing list is not working.
SAn will push Gui to fix that

la próxima reunión debería ser en febrero - the next meeting should be on February

The meeting has been in February (thanks to Cri for managing the scheduling) and the participation was of 8-9 people (more than what we expected from the Framadate)


- GSoC projects presentation deadline is tomorrow


https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline

ilario points out that we should review our communication systems for avoiding that we get to know this the day before the deadline

the existing projects proposals are here https://projects.freifunk.net and all the LibreMesh-related proposals are from the last year.
In order for Freifunk to be accepted in the program, the projects are important.
We should contribute new projects here (and maybe delete some old ones):
https://github.com/freifunk/projects.freifunk.net-contents/tree/main/collections/_projects
the template is here:
https://github.com/freifunk/projects.freifunk.net-contents/blob/main/README.md
All of us will write the projects
SAn will make the pull requests

A brainstorming follows, more or less with the following proposals:

SAn:
the projects have to be centered on coding

ilario:
Quality of Service (Traffic Control) included in Pirania, for having a guests access with low priority and a "node owner" or "person with voucher" with high priority. This should be more or less easy for the gateway node (just creating two interfaces, an open one with low priority and a closed one with high priority), but less so for the others. Amuza and SAn could be mentors.

name: "Implement Smart Queue Management in Pirania captive portal for mesh networks"
desc: "Pirania captive portal is a voucher-based captive portal used in LibreMesh. In order to have guest access, this should have a lower priority, managed via Traffic Control."
requirements:
 - "The applicant needs to have understanding of networking in mesh networks."
difficulty: "high"
size: "full-time"
issues:
 - "https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/261"
 - "https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/244"
mentors:
 - SAn
 - ??????????????????Amuza??????????
 - Ilario
initiatives:
 - GSoC
tags:
 - LibreMesg
 - Pirania
 - TC
 - SQM
collaborating_projects:
 - "LibreMesh"

Pirania captive portal is already in production in some community networks running LibreMesh on their routers.
The usage of Pirania helps the community to pay the bill from the internet service provider.
But LibreMesh project also tries to open the access to the local and remote digital resources to everyone, and for this reason the availability of a guest access would be reccomended.
This will require that the presence of a connected guest client does not slow down the connection of the owner of the gateway or of who actually paid for having a Pirania voucher.
In order to achieve this, the data packets needs to have different priorities depending on the originating client, diregard the mesh node (access point) this client is connected to.
The problem is absolutely non-trivial, and the technical tools needed will be at least Traffic Control, Smart Queue Management, and iptables.

## Milestones GSOC 2022

**GSOC 2022 COMMUNITY BONDING**

* Conceptual work should produce a coherent proposal to be submitted to the community for the review.
* The student have a fork of the lime-packages repository and have learnt the basics of Git.
* The applicant should have joined all of the communication channel of the project and met the community in the periodic online meetings.
* An initial blog post will be written, with the invitation to propose alternative solutions for the identified challenges.

**GSOC 2022 MIDTERM**

* Conceptual work should be completed, the functions to be implemented and the tools should be fixed.
* The applicant should have a working testing platform, either physical or virtual.
* The applicant should be familiarized with LibreMesh configuration and running.
* The applicant should be familiarized with Pirania configuration and running.
* The applicant should be familiarized with iptables configuration and running.
* The applicant should be familiarized with Traffic Control for Smart Queue Management configuration and running.
* A mid term blog post will be written.

**GSOC 2022 FINAL**

* The patch for Pirania should be functional even if not completely polished.
* Everything has to be reviewed and merged.
* Unit testing tests should be ready.
* Documentation should be available.
* A final blog post will be written.


Cri:
problem of self-signed SSL certificates for services internal to mesh networks (e.g. if one member offers a file server, its HTTPS certificate should be recognized as valid), should we offer some solution? Or a guide on how to register a certificate for the public domain and how to use this for issuing certificates for the subdomains to copy on the local services? Luandro could be mentor.

Cri:
LibreMesh on OpenWrt 21.02 seems working but surely it will require more work


Ger:
documenting a clear way for techie people to test LibreMesh in a virtual environment so that they can understand and try it before actually buying the routers. SAn proposes to make a Docker with everything configured for this scope.
some ways of managing the virtual machines with LibreMesh are described here: 
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/389


ilario:
an smartphone app for easing the connection to thisnode.info
Ger & SAn: this is already included in Thomas' app made in last year's GSoC
https://github.com/Patacon13/LimeApp
but more work could be needed and it could be included in an app store (F-Droid?)

Ger?:
problems with the routing protocols, which are made for dealing with stuff like mobility that we do not usually have (nodes are fixed)

- Próxima reunión de proyecto / Next project meeting


There is consensus on the fact that the next meeting should be in April.