# 2022-04-23

**People & list of Topics**

- cri,txt,german,ilario, SAn

1) round about what we are working on..libremesh or mesh topic
2) News from AlterMundi's: We got funded by AMPR.org
3) News from GsoC (?)

- Irina Argarañás will be working on 

4) libremesh mailinglist ... check subscriptions and working (Cri..maybe Ilario?)
5) Analysis of the implementation status of last meeting's decisions
6) Revisit double review for PRs in libremesh repos.
7) Próxima reunión de proyecto / Next project meeting


Quick Comunications: https://battlemesh.org/

Temas dejados para próximos meetings - Topics left for next meetings:


- Metodos de participación para mejorar la inclusividad del proyecto (foro, wiki) / Participation methods for increasing the inclusion of community in the project (forum, wiki)

- Documentación / Documentation

- Como usar las donaciones / How to use the donations

- Temas tecnicos? (soporte OpenWrt 21.02, QoS con TC) / Technical topics? (support for OpenWrt 21.02, QoS,using TC)

- Abierto para propuestas y otros temas / Open for proposals and other topics


1) round about what we are working on..libremesh or mesh topic
Ilario: changed cityes, so in the last month has other topics to complete 
german: we got funded by AMPR, so I'll be back working soon. I helped Selankon with the FirstBootWizard as he is improving the interface so that it gives more information.
cri: maintaining the local mesh network, mounted new node, communication inside of the network, focus on contents creation inside the network and on human network between nodes, setting up Grafana found the good dashboard from and customized that is quite ready to share, working with Wireguard. I invited in this meeting Angelichi, who wrote a thesis on a greek mesh network. Battlemesh this year will be in September in Italy/Rome: 
https://dudle.inf.tu-dresden.de/battlemesh_v14/
https://ml.ninux.org/mailman/listinfo/battlemesh
txt.file: listening :)

2) News from AlterMundi's: We got funded by AMPR.org (german)
There's a roadmap, contributions are welcome and also let us know if you want to participate.
From last meeting, https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-dgUv9LE-VBIE6GDDUDDjVm9h4IrH9uqk8YXi-u3b18/edit#gid=0
Altermundi received the grant, lasts 18 months, to work on it you need to talk with Altermundi members (e.g. German Ferrero), collaborations are possible, check the list of the topics
The grant is for software development and documentation.
Cri can help with the UX (user experience) and frontend, and sharing their usecase
Some help could be needed to understand if Babeld and Batman-adv are correctly working in our setup; and whether there are missing content in lime-app

Ilario: We should collaborate with Babeld and Batman-adv developers for understanding whether our setup is optimal. In my opinion looks messy, it works but does not look correct. Some related discussions here:
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/666

Cri: when using OpenWrt 21.02 seems that L2 is not working, as the mesh works only when using a different subnet (changing ap_name), so seems that level3 works (Babeld). it would be very interesting to understand more on how LibreMesh work internally with Batman-adv and Babeld.

Ilario: it is important to test LibreMesh on OpenWrt release candidates as in the past we managed to spot bugs in OpenWrt that were fixed in the final release, making it working amazingly for us

Cri: are we going to have a specific meeting for this?

Ger: in the AMPR roadmap we have a point on that, we can do the meeting and hackatons at that point

3) News from GsoC (German)
- Irina Argarañás (computer science student) will be working on "Try LibreMesh without router" which is for having virtual nodes and virtual mesh network. The scripts are more or less ready but they are not easy to find and the documentation is not enough. For sure we need a link from the webpage pointing to clear instructions for having virtualization running on one's laptop. The goal is to have more contributors. 
https://projects.freifunk.net/#/projects?project=try_libremesh_without_having_a_router&lang=en

- Raamiz Ali applied to Priorities with Pirania
https://projects.freifunk.net/#/projects?project=implement_traffic_priorization_in_pirania_captive_portal_for_mesh_networks&lang=en

now the mentors have to prioritize the students

4) libremesh mailinglist ... check subscriptions and working (Cri..maybe Ilario?)

Ilario, Cri: Who are the maintainers?
Ger: Gui & NicoE
Cri: how can we help?
Ger: writing an email to Gui
SAn: Gui already knows that there's the problem, is related to the reverse DNS that causes the bouncing of emails. But he does not have time to maintain.
Ilario: he has to accept help, because we really need the mailing list. Also Amuza volunteered for that.
Ger: I'll ask Gui for access on the server.
Cri: Who does manage the DNS?
SAn: Codigosur manages the DNS, so maybe we need to ask Codigosur for editing that. But nobody has time to support that. Codigosur was hosting that but when they stopped, Gui started hosting it. We can ask to other mailing list providers.
Ilario: Ninux server?
Cri: they did not implement DMARC which is a big problem with anybody using gmail. Framasoft? https://framalistes.org/sympa/ Autistici? https://www.autistici.org/services/lists Riseup? Mayfirst? Chatons? https://www.chatons.org/search/other
 https://www.chatons.org/search/by-service?service_type_target_id=114&field_alternatives_aux_services_target_id=All&field_software_target_id=All&field_is_shared_value=All&title=
SAn: we could also donate money to the server that will host us.
Ilario: we have money from donations on OpenCollective
https://opencollective.com/libremesh

Ger: los servidores de Altermundi estan caidos
http://lists.libremesh.org/  -> 404 Not Found

Ilario: We thank Gui for the great work done with keeping the list running when Codigosur stopped hosting. Should we propose on the list or on the chat asking where to host? SAn, can you take a backup of the subscribers list so that we can re-subscribe them in the new list? Should we do it right now or ask and wait one week?

Cri: I trust Autistici, Riseup and Mayfirst

SAn: maybe we will not be able to keep the domain lists.libremesh.org but the direction will be different

Ilario, Cri: no problem.

Cri: when the situation will be stable and working, we can go back

Ilario: the collective we know more people from are Autistici, let's use that

Cri: I can ask them. But the management will be done together? They are using Mailman2, thinking of migrating to Mailman3

Ilario: the 4 participants in this moment of the meeting could be the people having access to the mailing list management (SAn, Ger, Ilario, Cri). Maybe we'll warn the people before mass subscription to the new list.

Draft of mail:
Dear subscriber to the LibreMesh project mailing list,
as you maybe noticed, we're experiencing issues with the mail server hosted by Altermundi. We thank Altermundi for managing this service, but during this outage we are going to use an additional mailing list, in which we're going to subscribe all the subscribers.
The new mailing list is going to be on Autistici/Inventati servers and you'll receive a notification subscription shortly.
Cheers and have a good meshing!
LibreMesh community
Improved draft: https://pad.codigosur.org/kd0TzuZB1RWfYh-DGISH

5) Analysis of the implementation status of last meeting's decisions
Ger: we didn't look very much for students for GSoC

6) Revisit double review for PRs in libremesh repos.
Ger: this is keeping back the releases of LibreRouterOS, maybe one review is enough
Ilario: one is enough
SAn: one is enough, I will change that

7) Próxima reunión de proyecto / Next project meeting

next meeting in June

Ger: I will send out the Framadate
