# 2023-12-02 PROJECT MEETING

*Saturday the 2th of December 2023 at 13:00 UTC (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART).*

Time: 13:00-14:16 UTC

**People:** Cri, Chris

Welcome Chris, he is a Linux System Administrator from Minnesota, U.S.A
Cri shared documentation from antennine network

## Website

we have the possibility to keep the same structure of the old website: jeckyll + ascii-doc but with a different theme: this is good because the content input can be txt file, and we reuse txt file to put the doc in the firmware and be readable by browser. 

Cris: I'm happy that we keep the old habits about the structure oof the content, but with this restyl we move in a more fashionable shape. And I think is motivating also to update the documentation :) that probably the next work that we have to do... for the new year
Chris: I think the new theme looks nice. (But I am not a designer)

From this assembly the opinion looks positive to the merge of the "new restyle" of the website. we wait a week to see reaction in mailinglist, and after I(Cris) can accept merge request.

## Testing

two people answered to this call https://lists.autistici.org/message/20231101.163202.5a0742ed.en.html
I, Cris, think that both are trustable people.. I expected that some of them come to this meeting, but this not happen.

Scenarios to check:

* checking if the internet connection internet1 goes down, if the wifi
clients (common AP name) still have connection
* checking if the internet connection internet2 goes down, if the wifi
clients (common AP name) still have connection
* checking if the internet connection internet1 goes down, if the cabled
clients (on dual_band#2) still have connection
* checking if the internet connection internet2 goes down, if the cabled
clients (on dual_band#2) still have connection
* checking roaming, e.g. with an audio call
* define exactly how router wire to router is connected: LAN to LAN with
mesh configuration e.g.
https://github.com/libremesh/network-profiles/tree/master/calafou#lime-community-configuration-3

Pony proposal and devices: https://lists.autistici.org/message/20231126.160655.2b35dc1f.en.html
Cris: good point that the devices are with DSA.. not clear "None of them are running babeld though" and not clear if this is give problem to test, for example the first 2 scenarios: 

Hiure https://lists.autistici.org/message/20231106.130003.64e0e1be.en.html
Cris: Good point is that can have a test in a real infrastructure. I would like know if the devices are with DSA or not..

we can wait answer in the mailinglist, if is present DSA on the devices is better to test because is one of the new feature present in openwrt23 and 23.

## Name of the new release

Gio proposed Fantastic Forwarder https://lists.autistici.org/message/20231027.124816.b94a37d1.en.html

For this assembly the name sounds good! 

## GSoC2024

we just introduced the topics.. we are happy to listen proposals in the next weeks in the mailinglist.
the last year with the opportunity and money (circa 3k euro) from th GSoC we wrote Ansible roles to automated the build of the Libremesh release candidate. and this was really good for the Libremesh project.
So lets go to think something of improving for the next year. The work will be done in summer 2024 and we need also 2 people that apply as Mentor.
we can propose probably 2 projects.. but all the year depend from freifunk and google how many project can be really realized.

Topics:
* Assign the work-grant for testing the release candidate
* Website restyling, e.g. https://libremesh.antennine.campiinrete.org
* Next release name 
* GSoC2024
