# Saturday the 1st of June 2024 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).

## People
Cri, Nemael, Henrique, Ilario, Gothos, Andrea

## Topics

* Introductions
* Updated PicoPeer agreement
* GSoC New Pirania release
* GSoC Cable purpose autodetection
* Reports from BattleMesh
* Updates on the testing grant?
* When to make the release
* Next meetings
* Extra news

## Introductions

## Updated PicoPeer agreement

Cri: Most of the mesh networks in the world are using a Picopeer agreement.
Started from a community in London (London Mesh Network) and from another in Catalonia (Guifinet)
4 points to a Picopeer agreement:
    - Build a network between peers
    - Give/keep net neutrality
    - Give free transit on the network
    - Every mesh network can have local agreements
    
Cri: Freifunk asked to discuss about adding:
    - copyleft to contents shared freely in the network, so that members will agree to have copyleft content passing over their nodes.
    - No need to share a personal contact, someone can be have community being the contact

https://antennine.noblogs.org/post/2024/06/01/report-nuova-release-del-pico-peer-agreement/

## GSoC New Pirania release

https://blog.freifunk.net/2024/05/31/gsoc-2024-new-release-for-project-libremesh-pirania/

HMohr: Cri and Gothos, are you using any captive portal?
Gothos: Not yet
HMohr: I will speak to Luandro

Vouchers are needed for the economic sustainability of the network. In Brasil it is legal to share the connectivity but you cannot make profit (income has to be equal or less than the ISP fees).
Start: virtualizing with qemu, then with physical routers

Main problem: OpenWrt 19 (and the current Pirania code works on OpenWrt 19) uses iptables, OpenWrt 23 uses nftables

https://github.com/freifunk/projects/blob/f602dd6da862040854e78d6f9585bfa81da01738/_projects/libremeshpiranianewrelease.md

Splash page without need of vouchers is not implemented (???), even if it is mentioned in some parts of the documentation.
Splash page is like a captive portal also for communities that does not use vouchers. Just for welcoming users and informing them about the network they are using.

Cri: Beware! AP (e.g. ESSID LibreMesh.org) is showing the portal, but APNAME (e.g. ESSID LibreMesh.org/12345678) is not. Maybe this is ok? Communities can put a password to the APNAME or disable it.

Cri: Problem with lime-app & Pirania: you can activate the voucher and deactivate the captive portal, that makes no sense.

we have a meeting next wednesday 5 june to do deeper in the topic

next tasks

1) undestand what Pirania do and what not do
2) build workflow to have the package builded
3) 

## GSoC Cable purpose autodetection

Nemael: 
how to apply configuration/s that works out of the box.. or have a button to push?

4 main situations to detect:

https://blog.freifunk.net/2024/05/31/gsoc-2024-libremesh-cable-purpose-autodetection/

If we want to have the realtime detection and instantaneous configuration, we should warn the user that the change happened. Or one time configuration (first boot wizard)? but maybe this is out-of-scope of the project.

Ilario: It seems very risky to have the runtime autodetection, if things go wrong, the debugging will be very complicated.

Nemael: Let's start from the autoconfiguration triggered by the user, then we can see how difficult it is to have the runtime autoconfiguration (do we want it?).

FOR NEXT YEAR'S GSOC: we could buy routers spending LibreMesh donations money on OpenCollective. Right now, most of the money we have are destinated for the testing grant.
https://opencollective.com/libremesh
but we can keep next money from mentors from GSoC24 for buy hardware in the future.

Cri: From Italy, here some description of the hardware that we are using: https://antennine.noblogs.org/?s=antenne

## Reports from BattleMesh

Nobody in this meeting has been to BattleMesh
    -> Reported to next meeting

## Updates on the testing grant?

Pony reported and also received the payment

Hiure is still working on the details

both improved a lot the next release quality

## When to make the release

Until now, the release candidates has only two commits of difference from the head of the release branch.
A new release candidate now is not very different to the current release.
Should a release candidate be before or after release candidate?
 -> If before gsoc, maybe it could ease the work of GSoC?
 -> If after gsoc, there would be more time to squash the bugs and the possibility to add the code written during the GSoC itself

The second option has been preferred.

## Next meetings

https://libremesh.org/communication.html

Wednesday the 5th of June 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART)
-> probably there will be Hiure (coolab) and Gio (altermundi)

Monday the 24th of June 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART)

## Extra news

Ilario: Tomorrow in Barcelona there will be an experimental deploy: libremesh devices connected with other OpenWrt devices. to make a Mesh with Libremesh used to connect the Openwrt devices that need to be flashed/configured for experimenting.
LibreMesh routers will be used for managing the experimental network constituted by OpenWrt routers.
This is useful for testing experimental mesh networks also for BattleMesh event. This has been organized with the help of Pedro from eXO (https://exo.cat/, an association born from Guifinet) and Bruno from Coolab.

https://comunitat.canodrom.barcelona/assemblies/comunitat/f/1651/meetings/2812?locale=en
