# Saturday the 7th of December 2024 at 13:00 UTC (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART).

## People

Cristina, Ilario, Javier

## Topics

* Release 2024.1, what is missing
* Testing grant: status of Hiure's one and funding a new one
* Scheduling next meetings
* Google Summer of Code evaluation of 2024 andu projects for 2025
* Updating the list of admins of the repositories on Github
* eth configuration

## Release 2024.1, what is missing

https://github.com/orgs/libremesh/projects/3/views/1

We agree to make a release!

Checking the list of issue, none of them is blocking for a release

Ilario: The most "noteworthy" issues are:

1) Include auto-defer mechanism in deferable-reboot https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/1023
deferrable reboot can be very useful once the auto-defer mechanism is in place. There is a pull request ready to merge for this:
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/pull/1147

2) Problems with ethernet connections between routers in default configuration https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/1121
The router-router ethernet conection requires manual configuration, as with the default configuration it is working in a very unreliable and unstable way.

3) Consider new interface names https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/1132
Routers with unusual interface names are completely unusable.


## Testing grant: status of Hiure's one and funding a new one

Seems that Hiure is waiting the release (?) for completing the testing grant.

Currently, there are $1415 in the OpenCollective:
https://opencollective.com/libremesh#category-BUDGET

Of these, $500 will be given to Hiure for the testing grant.

What to do with the remaining $915?

Ilario: Another testing grant.
Cri: A testing grant with funds for buying hardware and also a development grant for fixing the issues identified during the previous testing grants.
Javier: If we fund the acquisition of hardware, there should be some clause that says that such hardware will be used also for testing next releases.
Ilario: Pony fixed every issue they found, still, the "fixing things" grant would be amazing. If we want to fund a testing grant with more money for the hardware, we do not have enough money for also funding a "fix stuff found in testing grant" grant. Which one do we prioritize?
Cristina: the testing + hardware one
Javier: we should define a testing protocol
Ilario: in the testing grant agreement a minimal list of stuff to test and of hardware to use was already included

## Scheduling next meetings

A meeting in December-January?
https://framadate.org/otffJfChn3Ulv1FN
will happen on the 3rd of January at the usual time: 13:00 UTC  (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART). 

We will continue with the meetings on the 1st Saturday of February, April, June, August, October and December.

* **Friday** the 3rd of January 2025 at 13:00 UTC (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART).
* Saturday the 1st of February 2025 at 13:00 UTC (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART).
* Saturday the 5th of April 2025 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).
* Saturday the 7th of June 2025 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).
* Saturday the 2nd of August 2025 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).
* **Wednesday** the 24th of September 2025 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).
* Saturday the 4th of October 2025 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).
* Saturday the 6th of December 2025 at 13:00 UTC (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART).

We closed the meeting here without discussing when to add meetings during the weekdays.

--- END OF MEETING ---

Participation during weekdays:

* Friday the 1st of November 2024 ---
* Wednesday the 11th of September 2024 --- Henrique, cri
* Monday the 24th of June 2024 --- Javier Jorge, Ilario, Nemael, Cri
* Wednesday the 5th of June 2024 --- Bruno, Cri, Henrique, Hiure, Ilario, Nemael, Gio, Batata
* Thursday 4th of January 2024 --- Gothos, Pony, Nele, Ilario, Javier Jorge, Hiure, Cri

Participation during Saturdays:

* Saturday the 7th of December 2024 --- Cristina, Ilario, Javier
* Saturday the 5th of October 2024 --- Cri, Hiure
* Saturday the 3rd of August 2024 --- Nemael
* Saturday the 1st of June 2024 --- Cri, Nemael, Henrique, Ilario, Gothos, Andrea
* Saturday the 6th of April 2024 --- Hiure, Batata, Javier, Pony
* Saturday the 3rd of February 2024 --- Hiure, Cri

[not discussed] Non-weekend Ilario proposes: Wednesday the 24th of September 2025

## Google Summer of Code evaluation 2024 and projects for 2025

[not discussed] Crisina: we should start writing projects for GSoC 2025

## Updating the list of admins of the repositories on Github

[not discussed] List in October's meeting minute

## eth configuration

[not discussed] Javier is implementing something for configuring interfaces from lime-app (?)
