# Friday the 3rd of January 2025 at 13:00 UTC (14:00 CET, 10:00 ART).

## People

Cri, Pony, Gio, Ilario, Gothos

## Topics

* Archive meetings' minutes 2024
* Release 2024.1
* Testing grant: status of Hiure's one and funding a new one
* Google Summer of Code 2025
* Scheduling more meetings?
* Updating the list of admins of the repositories on Github
* Ethernet configuration
* dev case use and personas: time steps

## Archive meetings' minutes 2024

Cri did this for 2023, can do it again for 2024
Cri will do it for 2024 also

## Release 2024.1

A few small fixes have been cherry picked to 2024.1 branch, they should be safe to include in the release.
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/tree/2024.1

Gothos can compile the release.

Gothos is improving the build process using Docker, will send am email with the details of the process.

Gio: currently LibreRouterOS uses most things from LibreMesh and is built with a script that takes OpenWrt and adds LibreMesh files. There should be no more stuff to pick to LibreMesh.

Ilario: should we include by default also deferrable-reboot?

Gio: it is difficult to make a 8 MB image, so I would avoid adding stuff that can be spared, but deferrable-reboot is small, so it should be ok. It can be disabled in the configuration (setting a long delay before reboot). The name is confusing. It should be something watchdog related.

Pony: in OpenWrt there is WatchCat https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-user/advanced/watchcat

Gio: if it does the same, we can drop deferrable-reboot and adopt watchcat. deferrable-reboot is coming from QuintanaLibre network, maybe they did not check if such a tool exists.

Cri: we are going OT. Anyway it will not be included in mini image.

Ilario: ok, let's not include it in this release, we have to try watchcat before.

The version should be set with a commit like this:
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/commit/2e50c6c45fb166b3ba16fbd062dc8e4f66923cd5

Name of the release "Fantastic Forwarder" https://lists.autistici.org/message/20231027.124816.b94a37d1.en.html

Ilario makes the tag and sets the release name.

## Testing grant: status of Hiure's one and funding a new one

Draft of the next grant:
https://pad.exo.cat/pad/#/2/pad/edit/X27kEbYUhJiJ5twKIBVHHVlT/

Cri&Ilario: In the previous meeting we observed that 400-500 $ was not enough for working on the grant and acquiring the required hardware. 800 $ for the next grant.

Cri: part of the money go to fix the issues found in the testing. People who receive the grant could be unable to fix the issues. We can have two separate grants: testing and fixing. Personally not interested to take the grant, nor anyone in the Valsamoggia community. Good occasion for writing properly the grant.

Pony: Personally no time until the beginning of April.

Ilario: No hurry, let's improve the grant text and send it around March and let's see who applies.

Pony: Testing DSA is useful but we need to test also swconfig. Difficult to test the roaming, it mostly depends on the client when to switch AP. The grant currently says that the bought devices should be available for future testing, but this depends on the future availability of the person. In this case, these devices could be sent to someone else. The testing grant should be more clear on this.

Cri: We can keep money for paying the shipment of the devices. Until when we buy another set of routers, so that we don't have to send the routers around.

Ilario: let's remove the tests about the roaming.

## Google Summer of Code 2025

Ilario: In 2024 I did not feel I was mentoring closely enough. Cannot be mentor for 2025.

Cri: Can be mentor for 2025.

Ilario: The project should be well defined.

Cri: GSoC is our main income, we should participate for 2025 also.

Unused projects from 2024:
* https://projects.freifunk.net/#/projects?project=libremesh_internet_control&lang=en
 maybe we are not really interested in this as it is questionable from a network neutrality point of view.

* https://projects.freifunk.net/#/projects?project=implement_traffic_prioritization_in_pirania_captive_portal_for_mesh_networks&lang=en
 this requires a lot of hard skills, maybe it is too difficult.

Gio: Tests on the network, that can be done between two nodes, like ping watch. Testing the MTU of a path (fast ethernet cannot support more than 1500 B of MTU, while gigabit can support jumbo frames). Useful for setting a bigger MTU on the links that support it. Also, the nodes could suggest the user to change channel. The new shared state could be useful for that.

Ilario: A project could be about a layer2-only image of LibreMesh for small and easy networks. Pedro proposed a project for supporting Babel via BIRD2 instead than Babeld.

Gio: Good the BIRD2, as it could resurrect the BGP implementation also.

Cri: Roaming for phone calls.

Ilario: 802.11r for roaming? Auto-distance feature.

Pony: There are two packages in OpenWrt improve roaming, a project could be to include them in LibreMesh.

Let's draft the projects here:
https://pad.exo.cat/code/#/2/code/edit/9IRFoOCL1mUnEXWDwdjgfR09/

Internal deadline end of January 2025

## Scheduling more meetings?

https://libremesh.org/communication.html#online_meetings
For now not, in the future we can add more meetings.

## Updating the list of admins of the repositories on Github

Current list of admins:

* a-gave
* altergui
* amuuza
* André Gaul andrenarchy
* AngiieOG
* Axel Neumann
* Benny Lichtner
* bruno vianna
* Daniel Golle dangowrt
* digitigrafo
* FreifunkUFO
* G10h4ck
* Gabriele Gemmi gabri94
* hiurequeiroz
* Ilario Gelmetti
* javierbrk
* luandro
* nicoechaniz
* Nicolás Pace
* Nicolas North nordurljosahvida
* p4u
* Pablo Castellano
* Paul Spooren aparcar
* raylas
* Santiago Piccinini
* selankon


Keeping only:

* a-gave
* bruno vianna (?)
* Daniel Golle dangowrt (?)
* digitigrafo
* G10h4ck
* hiurequeiroz
* Ilario Gelmetti
* javierbrk
* Paul Spooren aparcar
* Santiago Piccinini
* selankon

Additionally, adding:

* pony1k

Pony agreed.


## Ethernet configuration

This is the issue:
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/1121

Ilario: In the past meeting, Javier mentioned that he was working for exposing the LAN-or-mesh ethernet port configuration via the lime-app.

Pony: DSA cannot have an interface both in standalone and bridge mode, that was ok for swconfig routers. Porposal: deactivate routing protocols on interfaces by default. With swconfig would not change anything.

Pony: this pull request will also help distinguishing between DSA interfaces and old-style ones: https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/pull/1154

Ilario: let's include that fix in a 2024.2 release.

## dev case use and personas: time steps

Cri: Adding to the website the usecases, and link these usecases to humans. The website is a bit too technical, we should explain people what they can use LibreMesh for. For next meeting I can propose a text with the list of the usecases. To complete before the summer. Some have been listed in a previous meeting with Hiure.

## State of Lime App
